README.md, before:

# [auto_update](#auto_update)

Install and configure automatic package updates on your system.

|Travis|GitHub|Quality|Downloads|Version|
|------|------|-------|---------|-------|
|[![travis](https://travis-ci.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-auto_update.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-auto_update)|[![github](https://github.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-auto_update/workflows/Ansible%20Molecule/badge.svg)](https://github.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-auto_update/actions)|[![quality](https://img.shields.io/ansible/quality/45501)](https://galaxy.ansible.com/robertdebock/auto_update)|[![downloads](https://img.shields.io/ansible/role/d/45501)](https://galaxy.ansible.com/robertdebock/auto_update)|[![Version](https://img.shields.io/github/release/robertdebock/ansible-role-auto_update.svg)](https://github.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-auto_update/releases/)|

## [Example Playbook](#example-playbook)

This example is taken from `molecule/resources/converge.yml` and is tested on each push, pull request and release.
```yaml
---
- name: converge
  hosts: all
  become: yes
  gather_facts: yes

  roles:
    - role: robertdebock.auto_update
```

The machine may need to be prepared using `molecule/resources/prepare.yml`:
```yaml
---
- name: prepare
  hosts: all
  become: yes
  gather_facts: no

  roles:
    - role: robertdebock.bootstrap
```

For verification `molecule/resources/verify.yml` runs after the role has been applied.
```yaml
---
- name: Verify
  hosts: all
  become: yes
  gather_facts: no

  tasks:
    - name: check if connection still works
      ping:
```

Also see a [full explanation and example](https://robertdebock.nl/how-to-use-these-roles.html) on how to use these roles.

## [Role Variables](#role-variables)

These variables are set in `defaults/main.yml`:
```yaml
---
# defaults file for auto_update

# (RedHat like systems only) What type of updates to apply, valid choices are:
# default, security, security-severity:Critial, minimal, minimal-security, minimal-security-severity:Critical
auto_update_update_cmd: default

# (RedHat like systems only) Whether a message should be emitted when updates are available, were downloaded, or applied.
auto_update_message: no

# Whether updates should be downloaded when they are available.
auto_update_download_updates: yes

# Whether updates should be applied when they are available.  Note
# that download_updates must also be yes for the update to be applied.
auto_update_apply_updates: no

# Maximum amout of time to randomly sleep, in minutes.
auto_update_random_sleep: 360
```

## [Requirements](#requirements)

- Access to a repository containing packages, likely on the internet.
- A recent version of Ansible. (Tests run on the current, previous and next release of Ansible.)

The following roles can be installed to ensure all requirements are met, using `ansible-galaxy install -r requirements.yml`:

```yaml
---
- robertdebock.bootstrap
- robertdebock.cron

```

## [Context](#context)

This role is a part of many compatible roles. Have a look at [the documentation of these roles](https://robertdebock.nl/) for further information.

Here is an overview of related roles:
![dependencies](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/robertdebock/drawings/artifacts/auto_update.png "Dependency")

## [Compatibility](#compatibility)

This role has been tested on these [container images](https://hub.docker.com/u/robertdebock):

|container|tags|
|---------|----|
|el|7, 8|
|debian|buster, bullseye|
|fedora|all|
|ubuntu|focal, bionic, xenial|

The minimum version of Ansible required is 2.9, tests have been done to:

- The previous version.
- The current version.
- The development version.



## [Testing](#testing)

[Unit tests](https://travis-ci.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-auto_update) are done on every commit, pull request, release and periodically.

If you find issues, please register them in [GitHub](https://github.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-auto_update/issues)

Testing is done using [Tox](https://tox.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) and [Molecule](https://github.com/ansible/molecule):

[Tox](https://tox.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) tests multiple ansible versions.
[Molecule](https://github.com/ansible/molecule) tests multiple distributions.

To test using the defaults (any installed ansible version, namespace: `robertdebock`, image: `fedora`, tag: `latest`):

```
molecule test

# Or select a specific image:
image=ubuntu molecule test
# Or select a specific image and a specific tag:
image="debian" tag="stable" tox
```

Or you can test multiple versions of Ansible, and select images:
Tox allows multiple versions of Ansible to be tested. To run the default (namespace: `robertdebock`, image: `fedora`, tag: `latest`) tests:

```
tox

# To run CentOS (namespace: `robertdebock`, tag: `latest`)
image="centos" tox
# Or customize more:
image="debian" tag="stable" tox
```

## [License](#license)

Apache-2.0


## [Author Information](#author-information)

[Robert de Bock](https://robertdebock.nl/)

Please consider [sponsoring me](https://github.com/sponsors/robertdebock).

Commit message:

List requirements with their build status.

README.md, after:

# [auto_update](#auto_update)

Install and configure automatic package updates on your system.

|Travis|GitHub|Quality|Downloads|Version|
|------|------|-------|---------|-------|
|[![travis](https://travis-ci.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-auto_update.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-auto_update)|[![github](https://github.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-auto_update/workflows/Ansible%20Molecule/badge.svg)](https://github.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-auto_update/actions)|[![quality](https://img.shields.io/ansible/quality/45501)](https://galaxy.ansible.com/robertdebock/auto_update)|[![downloads](https://img.shields.io/ansible/role/d/45501)](https://galaxy.ansible.com/robertdebock/auto_update)|[![Version](https://img.shields.io/github/release/robertdebock/ansible-role-auto_update.svg)](https://github.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-auto_update/releases/)|

## [Example Playbook](#example-playbook)

This example is taken from `molecule/resources/converge.yml` and is tested on each push, pull request and release.
```yaml
---
- name: converge
  hosts: all
  become: yes
  gather_facts: yes

  roles:
    - role: robertdebock.auto_update
```

The machine needs to be prepared in CI this is done using `molecule/resources/prepare.yml`:
```yaml
---
- name: prepare
  hosts: all
  become: yes
  gather_facts: no

  roles:
    - role: robertdebock.bootstrap
```
```
Also see a [full explanation and example](https://robertdebock.nl/how-to-use-these-roles.html) on how to use these roles.

## [Role Variables](#role-variables)

These variables are set in `defaults/main.yml`:
```yaml
---
# defaults file for auto_update

# (RedHat like systems only) What type of updates to apply, valid choices are:
# default, security, security-severity:Critial, minimal, minimal-security, minimal-security-severity:Critical
auto_update_update_cmd: default

# (RedHat like systems only) Whether a message should be emitted when updates are available, were downloaded, or applied.
auto_update_message: no

# Whether updates should be downloaded when they are available.
auto_update_download_updates: yes

# Whether updates should be applied when they are available.  Note
# that download_updates must also be yes for the update to be applied.
auto_update_apply_updates: no

# Maximum amout of time to randomly sleep, in minutes.
auto_update_random_sleep: 360
```

## [Requirements](#requirements)

- Access to a repository containing packages, likely on the internet.
- A recent version of Ansible. (Tests run on the current, previous and next release of Ansible.)

## [Status of requirements](#status-of-requirements)

| Requirement | Travis | GitHub |
|-------------|--------|--------|
| [robertdebock.bootstrap](https://galaxy.ansible.com/robertdebock/bootstrap) | [![Build Status Travis](https://travis-ci.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-bootstrap.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-bootstrap) | [![Build Status GitHub](https://github.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-bootstrap/workflows/Ansible%20Molecule/badge.svg)](https://github.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-bootstrap/actions) |
| [robertdebock.cron](https://galaxy.ansible.com/robertdebock/cron) | [![Build Status Travis](https://travis-ci.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-cron.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-cron) | [![Build Status GitHub](https://github.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-cron/workflows/Ansible%20Molecule/badge.svg)](https://github.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-cron/actions) |

## [Context](#context)

This role is a part of many compatible roles. Have a look at [the documentation of these roles](https://robertdebock.nl/) for further information.

Here is an overview of related roles:
![dependencies](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/robertdebock/drawings/artifacts/auto_update.png "Dependency")

## [Compatibility](#compatibility)

This role has been tested on these [container images](https://hub.docker.com/u/robertdebock):

|container|tags|
|---------|----|
|el|7, 8|
|debian|buster, bullseye|
|fedora|all|
|ubuntu|focal, bionic, xenial|

The minimum version of Ansible required is 2.9, tests have been done to:

- The previous version.
- The current version.
- The development version.



## [Testing](#testing)

[Unit tests](https://travis-ci.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-auto_update) are done on every commit, pull request, release and periodically.

If you find issues, please register them in [GitHub](https://github.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-auto_update/issues)

Testing is done using [Tox](https://tox.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) and [Molecule](https://github.com/ansible/molecule):

[Tox](https://tox.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) tests multiple ansible versions.
[Molecule](https://github.com/ansible/molecule) tests multiple distributions.

To test using the defaults (any installed ansible version, namespace: `robertdebock`, image: `fedora`, tag: `latest`):

```
molecule test

# Or select a specific image:
image=ubuntu molecule test
# Or select a specific image and a specific tag:
image="debian" tag="stable" tox
```

Or you can test multiple versions of Ansible, and select images:
Tox allows multiple versions of Ansible to be tested. To run the default (namespace: `robertdebock`, image: `fedora`, tag: `latest`) tests:

```
tox

# To run CentOS (namespace: `robertdebock`, tag: `latest`)
image="centos" tox
# Or customize more:
image="debian" tag="stable" tox
```

## [License](#license)

Apache-2.0


## [Author Information](#author-information)

[Robert de Bock](https://robertdebock.nl/)

Please consider [sponsoring me](https://github.com/sponsors/robertdebock).
